Thank you very much.
So, hi, I'm Kobi.
I work in Bank Capital Crypto.
And today I want to talk about what I titled as Account
Logic in Ad Proto, Using Trusted Execution Environ
ments.
So it's a bunch of things, so let's break
them down.
A short disclaimer before I start.
Bank Capital Crypto is an investor in Turnkey and Blue
Sky, both of which I'll mention in the talk.
So, yeah, let's go to the actual stuff.
So, first of all, before we kind of get into
what this does, I want to give an overview of how
accounts look like in Ad Proto.
And specifically, I'm a cryptographer, or I guess
a supply cryptographer, and I want to talk about those
aspects of accounts.
So, accounts in Ad Proto, they have users,
and users I kind of call decentralized identifiers.
And each decentralized identifier basically has cryptographic keys attached to it
.
And these cryptographic keys control what is authorized by each user
to be posted or done in their name.
There are different kinds of deeds, and we will talk about
a couple of them later and what guarantees each of them gives
you.
But what you have to know is just this fact.
Each user has this decentralized identifier attached to them, and each
of them has what's called a repo sign-in key
.
This repo sign-in key basically authenticates every operation that
your deeds make.
So, that means posting.
That means doing likes.
That means doing everything else that other apps do on your account
.
So, it could be anything.
What is the guarantee that you get?
This is a sign-in key.
This is a digital signature.
So, the guarantee that you get is this deed agreed for
this record to be published or for this operation to be performed
.
But that's kind of what you get, which is already
very powerful.
You already get end-to-end verifiability.
So, a deed that is published on, that is used
on the network has these keys.
So, whenever you want to verify a post is valid,
you can go to the post.
You can see which deed posted it.
You can then take what's called a deed document, which
then lists what cryptographic keys it has.
You can get those keys.
You can verify the signature on something.
Let's call it verify the signature on the record.
And pretty much done.
So, this is a very nice property of AdProto
in general.
But what if you wanted a bit more from this guarantee?
So, not only this deed authorized is supposed to be published
, what if you want more?
So, what if you want to have some logic attached to
each operation that is performed in your name?
An example, like a few examples, would be, let
's say that each post that is published in your account,
you want it to be verified by some LLM that
runs some analysis and check that it's like a non-
toxic post that runs an LLM that runs on
your computer.
What if we want to get a guarantee that the images that
you're posting or that someone else is posting are coming from
a trusted source?
So, for example, you have cameras today that have digital
signatures on them.
So, you can verify that these are images that have not
been tampered with, for example.
What about a kind of multi-signature accounts or
an organizational account?
Each post has to be authorized by two out of three people
so that if you want some more trust
in those posts, you can add that kind of logic.
Or maybe you want some verified bot accounts.
So, that, for example, could be a bot account
that runs with a given system prompt because we don't want
just any random bots posting everything.
Maybe we want to limit them to some things that are more
positive.
So, generally, what if we attach logic to record authorization
?
If we're talking about signatures, then the limits are that
what I've mentioned, which is you just can say that
the deed agreed for something to be published.
But with logic, you can say the deed ran this program
before publishing and this is a strong guarantee that you can get
.
You can do that with signatures if you trust the signer
So, you know, if you trust the people who run
the deed to run this program for you or run this program
by themselves, then you can get this guarantee.
But in a big network with lots of people, sometimes in
adversarial scenarios, you want some third-party guarantee that
this program ran.
And this acts as a filter to the operations you perform.
So, now let's talk about what trusted execution environments are
.
It's a bit of a mouthful, at least for
me.
Trusted execution environments or TEs are special kind of hardware
that are built in a way that allows you to get a
guarantee of what's running inside it.
Specifically, these machines or these machines with special security chips allow
you to measure, get some measurements of what's running inside
it.
So, you can get the guarantee of what code is running
inside them.
You can do that really all the way down.
You can do that to the base OS that's running inside
the TE.
You can say what binary is running there.
And even more, you can even get a more powerful guarantee
, which is even what source code is running there.
in the way that, let's say that you have some
source code published on GitHub, Tangle, whatever.
You can build it in a special way that is called a
reproducible build that gets you the same binary each time.
You can then check that this binary is what's running in
the TE.
One downside of TE is that it adds some trust assumption on
the TE provider or the TE manufacturer more correctly.
Concretely, you need to trust that the TE manufacturer
built the trusted platform in a way that is robust, that
does give you this guarantee that these measurements are correct.
That's unavoidable, but that's the trust assumption
that you would have to make.
Okay, so what we want to talk about is how these
two areas connect, how at Proto that has keys connect
to TEs.
So there is this concept called key encumbrance.
And key encumbrance means a public-private keeper
for, let's say, digital signatures where the private key
is never known to the public.
It is only generated inside this TE and the TE does not
provide a way for you to extract it outside.
What we can do now, we can think about, okay
, we have a TE that runs a specific program and we
have a key that's locked inside it and will never be
put outside.
what if we add specific conditions under which signatures can be done
.
So basically what we can do is we can tie a key
to a specific program.
And the really nice property that you get with this kind of
setup is that you can convert logic to digital signatures.
And what I mean here is the following.
let's say that you have the guarantee that, okay,
there is a TE provider that you trust.
You then have a key that is generated inside this TE.
Then you have the program that you know what are the conditions
it would sign under that uses that specific key.
And you get this kind of chain of verifiability where
you only need to verify this attestation or this proof
that this key came from a valid TE once.
And once you do that you can just verify signatures.
You don't have to do anything else anymore.
So this is the kind of minimal overhead
that you can have while still getting a very powerful guarantee.
So this is this verifiability all the way down.
You usually have from this TE manufacturer a root certificate that cert
ifies this is the correct hardware.
This is valid hardware that is secure.
You then have proof of what program is running.
So you know this is the expected logic that runs there.
And then you know that whenever the TE produces signatures the logic
agrees with whatever you wanted to run there.
Now maybe you can think about okay, but that means I
now have to start verifying these weird TE proofs all
the time.
No.
Because you can maybe assume that some people verify them.
As long as enough people in the world go ahead and verify
TE proofs about these keys other people relays other actors
in the network can just verify signatures.
Okay.
Now let's talk about a specific concrete application where
here we want to talk about this example of two out of
three people need to authorize each record that is posted on
your account.
One way to do it would be to say okay when we
launch the TE one of the arguments of the program would be
a set of three keys and these three keys have to have
a quorum of two of them signing each time.
That's one way.
Another way would be to use the natural elements that we already
have in at proto and specifically deeds.
So like Matt showed in his talk there are multiple kinds of
deeds there is deed web there is deed plc deed web
basically trusts and some trust of the DNS provider and you just
go to some specific URL under your domain name and you get
the deed document and it has a field which describes the keys
.
Okay so that's what you can get from deed web.
And deed plc has a bit of more more of a
complex structure and concretely deed plc is what's used
by the main blue sky network and it works in a way
that when an account is created it's created with some gen
esis state and then whenever you want to make updates to this
state you have to sign them cryptographically as well and
you submit them to plc and then you create some sort
of chain.
Each update in plc of course references the previous state of
your deed okay and
where now is that me solved
magically so that's what's called in plc the audit
log and it looks something like this you have the genesis
state which has this field called prev to be null because there
is no previous state but every time you make an update you
have a reference to the previous state so if you want to
know the current state of a deed you ask to see the
audit log and you can verify this audit log up until the
current state now you may you might think you might already
guess where I'm going with this and I will say that
a lot of these ideas are not new I'm just like
trying to show how potentially we can apply them in net proto
and even we've seen uses of tees in things like
privacy preserving analytics we've seen them in delegating access to
online accounts so this is a combination of these ideas here so
now you might ask yourself what key should I encumber one
maybe obvious choice would be this add proto key or what I
call the repo signing key and this add proto key controls every
operation that you make in your account but that's also its
downside and again I reference Matt's talk because we've seen
every time that he made an operation and every time something happened
you need to add a record to your PDS so that
's a good choice if you want everything to be really really
protected but it also adds this friction so
what we did here is we instead worked with what's called
a proof attestation key or like this hashtag sign key
that only signs attestations on records that are posts it
does introduce the requirement for extra verification infrastructure but that verification infrastructure
is still only verification of signatures and concretely we created a
proof of concept and this proof of concept draws on proof and
attestation work that Nick Jerakinis worked on and
this specific work also includes contributions from Nick Jerakinis Andrea
Novakovic from my team and also the turnkey team
so concretely what we did here is we created a new
app like a bset app you can imagine just as any
other app that you could be logging into and an author in
this app would be creating a post draft so okay there is
a post draft now signers would start adding signatures to this
post draft they would say okay we are agreeing to sign this
post if it is also signed by one of the keys that
we know are locked in a T okay so the signer
1 would do that signer 2 would do that signer
3 is offline but it's fine we have 2 out of
3 once we have that that's where the interesting part gets
in we send this collection of signatures with a post draft to
the T the T also gets this audit log from PLC
and runs the following logic is is the audit log correct what
is the list of three keys that the audit log results with
and do I have at least two signatures that come from these
keys if so only and only then it signs with its own
encumbered key sends it to the app and the app
publishes it to your PDS and concretely we even
have here I'll show it soon so this is the guarantees
that I mentioned and this is a concrete post that was actually
signed by a real TE and posted on blue sky from the
author 3.
te pds.
com and what you can see here is that it has a
few nice things this is the proof of the station work that
Nick had it adds this signatures field and the interesting part is
this one these are part of the post draft but this is
where we have a signature that came from and actually encumber
ed TE so whenever someone reads the record that is attached to
this post they can go and verify the signature of this and
then they can go and verify that this list of keys here
have have a root certificate at the station attached
to them and therefore you can get end-to-end
verifiability still preserved so
yeah that's the main thing I wanted to talk about maybe
I'll touch on two related concepts one is this concept of
reproducible build because this is something that we're not always
thinking about when developing software usually so when we're creating Node
.
js code C code RAS code whatever whenever we compile it
we sometimes get a different binary for many reasons sometimes versions change
of our dependencies sometimes just our compilers add timestamps
which is reasonable but it changes the binary that we get eventually
and that is a bit disastrous when you want to get the
guarantee that a specific program is running in a T but luckily
a lot of people have thought about it and it's something
that people have worked on for decades and there is good infrastructure
to do that so you can take code in C you can
take code in Rust or whatever is still reasonable to do it
in and build it and you can get something that translates source
code to binary in a way that you always get the same
hash so that means that we don't add trust on whoever
deploys the program to the TE anyone could go and fetch
the source code and rebuild themselves which is nice like this is
preserve the decentralized nature of what we're trying to get yeah
and this is a whole verifiability chain that I mentioned
I'll just look at it briefly so we have a published
post we have signatures on this post we have a
deed that lives on PLC and has TE keys that it
allows to sign and we also have attestation that these
keys came from the right manufacturer and are actually secure keys and
the verification that this whole chain happened correctly so
now because I know I'm still a cryptographer I want
to give alternatives that maybe some of you would want to utilize
instead and two alternatives that might get
you to similar concepts would be something called multiparty computation
which is a concept that allows you to split a cryptographic
key in a way that whenever it's used it still seems
like a single person signature like we know to verify but instead
you split it to let's say two out of three people
so that they have to run a very complex cryptographic protocol
and then produce this signature that looks like any other signature you
could do that but now you don't have the guarantee that
some specific program is running you have to trust that an honest
majority of people in this committee of signers are running the
correct program reasonable but that's the trade-off and there
is also another complex concept of zero knowledge proofs which is
again allows you to take a program convert it to some different
kind of math and then get a guarantee that specific logic ran
on specific inputs that's nice but what it produces is not
signatures what it produces is proofs and these proofs can
sometimes be large these proofs can also be slower to verify
sometimes so also powerful different trade-offs another thing that these
could give you is the fact that they can also interact with
the real world so for example some of them can also make
requests from inside the TE and fetch data for example which is
let's say in zk proofs it's not really
possible maybe in some different ways npc is possible but then
you run into some race conditions maybe every time you fetch and
different parties would fetch different things load balancing whatever something you can
do and yeah I will say that is used very specific implementation
of TE is here but most of this concept are transferable
to other TE systems as well and yeah before I wrap up
I'll just also put some glaring open questions that exist
in this proof of concept one of them is what about protecting
the deed itself so if you remember what I was saying is
that we take the list of keys that are authorized to sign
from the deed document and that can be updated that can be
updated in PLC that can be updated in deed web so
maybe we need strong protections on the deed itself because otherwise it
could just put any keys it wants and then maybe the ver
ifiability becomes meaningless but that's also okay because in some
sense you can say that updates to the deed should be rare
like it's not something that needs to happen every day so
you can think about stronger protections that you can add to deeds
and maybe the rotation key which is what controls updates to the
deed in PLC can be under really strong guard or whatever
so that's one thing another thing is if you you might
remember that I said that in order to know what are the
keys that are authorized to sign we send the whole audit log
to the T and but what if we didn't send the
entire audit log what if we stopped before the last update so
it might not have the most fresh list of keys so this
is a problem like you can think about solving it in different
ways maybe making requests out of the T to fetch the audit
log and then you don't need to trust the input audit
log maybe there is a solution that can be done on PL
C itself maybe PLC could start signing responses that's different
ways and yeah many many other things that are left open here
and when people look at it they are welcome to discuss this
with me or others but yeah many other things are open in
this proof of concept but yeah I hope that it opens some
new notion for at least some of you thank you